# DISCLAIMER
These reviews might have spoilers.

# 2018-07-09: Ready Player One
This was a very good book in my opinion, although some of the 80s references were lost on me. I think the picture of the future it paints might be accurate: an unhappy, divided population that can't get jobs, and only finds escape in VR. I hope governments plan ahead to avoid such a future. Also I feel like the lack of AI in the book was a bit surprising- I expect AI to play a much larger role in peoples' lives (both in VR and outside) than in the book, where they just had virtual assistants and stuff.

Overall would recommend.

# 2019-05-27: The Man in the High Castle
Interesting book; made me want to learn about the I Ching (a Chinese divination book).

# 2020-05-25 Angela's Ashes

Very sad but moving book. Made me realize how lucky I was in my childhood not
to grow up in poverty.

# 2020-07-01 The Handmaid's Tale

Very gripping novel. It definitely lived up to its fame.

# 2020-12-26 Remembrance of Earth's Past trilogy

Also known as "The Three-Body Problem" after the first book. This trilogy was
amazing: it really reminded me of the difficulties of international cooperation
and how human tendencies and values can get in the way of what's best for the
human race. I think this book raises a lot of interesting philosophical
questions in addition to being very well-written. I would definitely recommend
this trilogy!

# 2021-02-12 The Great Gatsby

An interesting book, but to me it didn't live up to my expectations given that
it is considered to be an American classic. The whole plot seemed a bit mundane
to me.

# 2021-02-27: The Call of the Wild

Surprisingly good short book. It was the first "animal fiction" book I've read.
I think the presentation of the mind of a dog was really well done. I would
recommend reading this book.

# 2021-10-15: Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality

A Harry Potter fan-fiction which was surprisingly captivating and had a lot of
nice tidbits of philosophy of science, and about inconsistencies or weird
aspects of J.K. Rowling's description of the wizarding world. And it was quite
funny! Overall I'd highly recommend reading it.

# 2022-01-10: Dune

A good sci-fi novel, which took me by surprise since there wasn't a huge focus
on technology. Still, I would recommend it!

# 2023-03-09: A Gentleman in Moscow

A unique but gripping novel about a man confined to a hotel in Soviet Moscow.
Would highly recommend.

# 2025-06-01: Anna Karenina

A bit of a difficult read because of the long section in the middle about
Russian peasants' attitudes towards farming. Aside from that, this was a good
book, and contained a lot of good insights into relationships, even if it was a
bit slow at times. Overall I would recommend it, but I don't see why people
call this "the greatest book of all time".

# 2025-08-02 The Diamond Age

Overall a good book. I found the different kinds of social organizations
("phyles") very interesting. The future it describes seems a bit implausible
(nanotechnology but very limited AI), but to be fair this was written 30 years
ago.

# 2025-10-14 The Dispossessed

By Ursula K. Le Guin

Overall very interesting book, less "scifi" and more "political fiction" in my
opinion, most of the book discusses the workings of an anarchist/communist
society. I found its "outside view" of capitalist society especially
interesting. In this society people seem compelled to work hard, not by
coercion or risk of starvation, but seeing work as necessary for the
functioning of a society. This sounded very ideal (although the society is far
from ideal in many other aspects).
