# Sustainable Energy - without the hot air

## David MacKay

A highly recommended book on sustainable energy that focuses on _doing the
math_. A lot of talk on environmentalism is qualitative: we must _invest in
renewable energy_, _turn off lights_ and note that _every little bit helps_:
but this kind of talk never mentions the magnitude that any of these changes
will have. MacKay's book looks at energy as a simple mathematical formula: we
need to produce the same amount of energy that we consume, and concludes that
replacing existing energy sources with renewables will require **a lot** of
effort and resources. **The book is not an advocacy book**, but more of a _math
book_: it tries to just present the numbers.

The book focuses on Britain, which is obviously much different than my home
country of Canada because it has a much higher population density and very
little potential for hydroelectric power. It also has a much more developed
train system than North America, and its population uses _much less energy per
capita_ than Canada (shame on us). Nonetheless its conclusions are still
relevant to renewable energy as a whole.

**The big conclusion** of this book is that using renewables for a significant
portion of our energy supply will require _massive scale deployment_ (like
_country-sized_ solar farms). This conclusion is just reached by a simple
calculation of how much energy solar farms produce, and how much energy we
consume. Strategic positioning of the renewable energy plants means that it
should be possible to switch to sustainable energy sources if we build them,
but building the odd wind farm to 2 isn't really helping anybody: the scale at
which things would have to be done is absolutely **massive**.

Of course, the other option is nuclear energy, which produces no emissions and
can mostly supply our needs (but we would still need to build a lot of nuclear
power plants). The book is explicitly **not** pro-nuclear, but does talk about
it a lot, and reading between the lines the book essentially screams "**if we
don't want to build massive renewable energy plants, and we don't rely on
future technology, nuclear is the only option**".

Finally, the book talks a lot about how demand for energy can be reduced, such
as:
- using electric cars
- using more efficient heaters in your home, such as _heat pumps_, which pump
  in heat from the outside and can therefore be _over 100% efficient_.
- Turning off energy sucking devices (like _power vampires_ that suck power
  even when switched off)

The book also suggests that the market can't be relied upon to make all these
changes: in particular legislating away wastefully inefficient consumer goods
would be a good start.

**Overall**, this is a very helpful and easy to read book that explains how
things stand with renewable energy. Despite being 10 years old now, seeing as
no massive pledges to renewable energy have been made, I believe the
conclusions are all still relevant.

Professor MacKay was in the department that I am studying in now; if he hadn't
died of cancer I would have been able to work with him. Truly sad that cancer
took away such an important person for the world. I only hope I can continue to
support and help realize the goals he tried so hard to communicate to the
public.
