# One World: The Ethics of Globalization, by Peter Singer
First book by Peter Singer I read (should be the first of many for the next few weeks).
Overall a nice succinct review of some ethical issues of globalisation.

The book started off on a super scary note: talking about the ethics of climate change
and who is responsible and how nations need to put aside personal incentives and act together,
and how the US recently withdrew from Kyoto.
Yes, _Kyoto_, not _Paris_: this book is from **2004**.
What a scary thought that in 20 years we really haven't made a great amount of progress...

Next it talked a lot about free trade, and potential problems such as:
- allowing companies to exploit cheap labour in other countries
- not respecting/incentivizing environmental protection
- The structure of the WTO being undemocratic

It made some pretty strong points against the WTO,
but being written in 2004 some things may have changed,
but the fundamental points I imagine still remain.
The main argument I had issue with is the WTO being undemocratic:
I think if we hold a lot of institutions to Singer's standards
then practically nothing could actually be called democratic!
Countries opt into many things that are hard to opt out of,
and don't equally and fairly represent all their citizens.
It is really just a matter of degree.

The book also talked about the idea of the international community,
and re-stated Singer's case for helping the global poor that I'd read already,
but think is fairly correct.
A nice illustration from the book is essentially the trolley problem
but choosing between a sick child and a person's valuable car.
Obviously the person could sacrifice a valuable asset to save the child's
life, and many people would expect them to,
but this is effectively the same situation we all face with poor children
in developing countries, yet most of us don't sacrifice even a small
part of their wealth.

After reading the book, I am a lot more skeptical of the idea of nation states,
and hopeful that various things (like increased personal mobility and immigration)
might lead to the decline of national identities,
perhaps being replaced with other transnational identities like liberal,
conservative, environmentalist, capitalist, hipster, bigot, etc.
I hope his future books are also this insightful.
