# Sapiens

## Yuval Noah Harari

This book gives an overview of human history, focusing mostly on societal and
cultural changes. The main points were:

- Humans (_homo sapiens_) are quite similar to other members of the _homo_
  genus (all of which are now extinct). What made humans unique was their
  ability to collaborate in very large groups (greater than a few hundred).
  This was made possible by "common myths" which allow people to communicate
  despite never meeting, owing to a common belief in something important.
  Examples of such myths are religion, nations, money, language, stories, etc.
  They allowed us to exhibit behaviours beyond just what was in our DNA, and
  therein change our behaviours by just changing these myths instead of
  changing our DNA. This can be called: _cultural evolution_.
- Biologically, humans are still hunter gatherers, and are thereby "programmed"
  for a very different lifestyle. Physically, our diets and dietary impulses
  are tuned for a hunter-gatherer lifestyle: that is why we crave high-calorie
  foods and like varied diets. Socially, it seems that hunter gatherers had
  extremely varied beliefs, showing that many of our social patterns are
  cultural rather than biological.
- Humans have always had a noticeable ecological impact: for example, the large
  mammals of Australia were all killed as soon as humans arrived.
- The agricultural revolution was a "bad deal" for humanity: farming was a lot
  more work than being a hunter-gatherer, and made people's livelihoods much
  more vulnerable to disease, changes in weather, and invading armies who could
  take their land. The abundance of food was quickly replaced by an abundance
  of people, leaving peasants just at the brink of starvation and with no
  option of simply migrating somewhere else, as a hunter-gatherer would do. Yet
  once agriculture started it was impossible to turn back, since there were too
  many people to support by hunting/gathering.
- Agriculture spawned a lot of technologies and new ways of thinking:
    - Settling down onto a plot of land gave a sense of "home", and create the
      concept of "inside" vs "outside". Humankind was starting to build its own
      environment.
    - Farming was very dependent on the seasons, so people needed to reason
      about the future and make complex plans.
    - More people living together necessitated more complex social structures,
      such as laws and kings (the author calls these _imagined orders_). These
      social structures are founded in a common belief that has no objective
      reality, but nonetheless is effective because everybody believes it (for
      example, a king isn't a king because he is physically different from
      other people; he is king because everybody believes he is king). The
      author calls these beliefs _inter-subjective_, since they are not
      objective, but not merely subjective either, because _objectively_ it is
      true that other people believe them and that this belief has real
      consequences.
    - Writing was developed from the need to keep track of large quantities of
      stuff, and allowed people to artificially extend their memories.
- An influential _imagined order_ was the social hierarchy: placing certain
  groups (men, rich people) above others (women, poor people). Modern society
  is critical of this, but it is still undoubtedly very influential.
- Human culture is constantly in flux, but one very important pattern is the
  tendency towards unity. Larger cultures have swallowed smaller ones, and
  distant cultures often copy parts of other cultures that they encounter. Big
  factors in this were:
    - Money: a social construct which allowed dissimilar cultures to trade with
      each other.
    - Empires: they spread cultural practices far and wide, as conquered people
      were slowly but surely influenced by their conquerors, and in parallel
      the conquerors were influenced by the conquered.
    - Religion: gave cultures similar systems of value.
- Science was a very profound philosophical discovery. Beforehand, people
  roughly thought that all truth was known somewhere (such as by wise people or
  in scriptures), and that things were worse than they used to be, not better
  (i.e. Paradise lost). Therefore there was no need to seek out your own
  answers to questions, nor much point in even asking them. Science broke us
  out of this barrier, showing us that we are _ignorant_ but can work our way
  out of ignorance, setting up humanity for a sharp upwards trajectory. This
  meshed quite well with European imperialism, which also wanted to explore the
  world and discover new things (although for the purpose of exploitation, not
  knowledge).
- The world view that "there are more things out there" led to the idea of
  investment. Historically, economics was thought of as a zero-sum game, so an
  investor lending money could only expect a return if somebody else lost money
  (i.e. taking land from somebody else in a military campaign). However, with
  the belief that there are new lands/technologies to be discovered, economics
  was no longer seen as a zero-sum game, and therefore investing made a lot
  more sense. This investment in turn led to a lot of economic growth which
  wasn't possible before due to lack of capital. The investment in technology
  specifically led to more technology, leading to more investment, creating
  a positive feedback loop.
- The industrial revolution has fundamentally changed human life: people are
  more independent and individualistic, the role of families is reduced, and
  people's lives are much more scheduled.
- Ultimately it's unclear whether any of these changes have made people
  fundamentally happier. Our physical needs are met much more thoroughly, but
  arguably are emotional needs might be more unfulfilled. People also live on
  a _hedonic treadmill_, so when things get better we just raise our
  expectations.
- The future of people might not even really be "humans", but augmented
  versions of ourselves. This will be unlike any change in the past, which were
  all purely cultural or changes to the surroundings.

For me the biggest takeaway was that many parts of human
society that seem "fundamental", such as religion, money, and social hierarchy,
can be viewed instead as just social constructs, as there were times in human
history where these ideas didn't exist, or at least weren't universally
adopted.

Overall, this book gives the reader a unique perspective on where we stand in
human history, and is a strong lesson about the power of social constructs. I'd
highly recommend it.
