# Deep Work

## Cal Newport

Essentially this book argues that many professions require distraction-free
time to do focused work and that the setup of a lot of modern companies fail to
promote this by having constant distractions (e.g. constant emails,
Slack/instant messaging, etc). The book contains a lot of case studies and
anecdotes about people who have tried to schedule more distraction-free work
time and the benefits that they have received.

Here are some concrete recommendations that the book makes:

1. Explicitly schedule time for deep work, and ruthlessly avoid distractions
   during this period.
2. Quit social media (it's too distracting and negative)
3. Resist the urge to check emails all the time. Don't let people expect that
   you will always respond quickly to email. Checking emails can also provide
   a "hit" of feeling productive, because responding to an email is usually
   easier than working towards a long term project (e.g. writing a manuscript,
   doing detailed analysis).
4. Actively minimize the amount of "shallow work" that you do, such as
   administrative duties (assuming of course that administrative duties are not
   your main job).

Overall I agreed with many points in the book, and they reinforced ideas which
I was already sympathetic too (possibly from being signed up to Cal Newport's
newsletter). However, I felt that the same effect probably could have been
achieved in fewer pages. If you are already convinced that uninterrupted
focused work is important then I think this book is just worth a skim, and at
that only the second part entitled "The Rules". If this idea is new to you then
I think you would benefit from reading the whole book.
