# Talent: How to Identify Energizers, Creatives, and Winners Around the World

By Tyler Cowan & Daniel Gross

Link: <https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/56269174-talent>

**NOTE**: this is my own notes, so not everything I write here was in the book.
I could have misunderstood things or added bits of my own thinking.

Book about "talent" search, and indirectly about hiring, being talented, and
showing others that you are talented.

The book starts by setting the stage for talent search. What is talent?
Basically "being able to do great work" (my definition after reading the book,
not actually what the authors said). There are many varieties of talent, and of
course different roles will demand different skills and character traits (eg
Olympic athlete and top scientists are very different jobs). The book tries to
be general and give advice relevant to _all_ kinds of talent searches. The book
generally assumes you are in a "hiring" role: either a boss or somebody
choosing who you'd like to work with. You need to select people for your
team/company who are talented. How should you go about spotting talent? How
important is getting the right people? These are the key questions the book
tries to answer.

## Why talent matters

This is chapter 1. Obviously having good people is important for any job.
However, some jobs benefit from talent more than others. For example, a fast
food restaurant expects workers to execute standardized procedures in a
consistent way, and they expect most people they hire can be trained to that
standard. There isn't really much marginal benefit for an "exceptional"
candidate. Conversely, on the "higher" end of jobs like a CEO, professor, etc,
the upper bound for performance is effectively limitless, and the "best"
candidate could plausibly perform 10x better than the second best candidate.
This book focuses on the second case, where identifying top talent is
critically important.

## Talent as "underrated vs overrated"

The book sort of assumes the reader comes in with a baseline expectation of
what traits matter for talent: intelligence, diligence, creativity, etc. No
need to go over the basics (something Tyler Cowen will always skip over in his
podcasts). Instead, the book aims to convey the "non-obvious" beliefs of the
authors, which is mostly which particular traits are overrated or underrated by
other people in the job market, and the relative importance of different
traits. Most of the points are argued as "this matters less than you would
expect" or "most people don't realize how important this is." I'll organize
some points which stood out to me into "overrated" and "underrated".

**Overrated**:

- **Intelligence**: obviously important, but everybody already thinks it is
  important, and arguably people currently overindex on intelligence by
  focusing on what universities one went to (whose admissions are usually based
  on grades/tests) and by explicitly seeking smart people. Low intelligence is
  probably bad for any high-functioning role, but people with only "high"
  intelligence (ie not "very high") can compensate in other ways, eg
  motivation, conscientiousness, etc. The most high performing people in
  various fields like programming or science are usually smart, but not
  necessarily the _most smart_.
- **Conscientiousness**: seems like the most sought after trait, but everybody
  thinks this, leading to it being overvalued. There is a perception that
  conscientiousness is "general" in a way that it probably isn't. Somebody
  might do a hobby very conscientiously (eg intricate embroidery) but not want
  to apply the same conscientiousness to their work tasks (eg filling in very
  boring forms).
- **Agreeableness**: for startup founders, professors, or leaders, being a bit
  disagreeable might be good: it allows people to push against the status quo
  and challenge ideas.
- **Personality tests**: usually overrated, no individual factor correlates
  that well with job performance. It is a useful way to talk about candidate
  personality though: it gives people a common language, even if it is
  imperfect.

Underrated:

- **Stamina**: being able to do a lot (eg work a lot). All things being equal,
  working more and doing more gets better results. Tyler notices most people at
  the very top of their fields tend to have very high stamina (eg himself).
  People don't usually look for this, making it undervalued.
- **Rate of improvement**: people look for accomplishments more than rate of
  improvement. For people early in their careers they might not have
  accomplished much yet, and you want to look at _how fast_ they are improving,
  since you are effectively betting on their future performance, and in the
  long run this will make the biggest difference. Not looked for a lot, so
  currently undervalued.
- **Women/minorities**: interviewing processes are still geared towards "white
  male" culture, which means female/minority talent is often missed. This
  talent is effectively _undervalued_ in the market now, meaning you can find
  really good people not scooped up by other companies by giving extra
  focus/attention to women and minorities.
- **Disability**: there are many people with disabilities who can still do
  important work. A bit example class is autistic people, who can often do
  really good focused work and have good quantitative skills. They might "fail"
  other parts of a hiring interview such a phone conversations, but strong
  people skills are not required for all jobs!

## About the hiring process itself

The book also has opinions about how to run interviews/etc. Their general
opinion is that interviews with pre-prepared questions and pre-prepared
responses are largely a waste of time (maybe best for the kinds of low agency
jobs where you'd like people to "stick to the script"). You should get to new
questions as quickly as possible to turn it into a real conversation. Some
ideas are:

- Switch locations partway through the interview (eg office to cafe). You get a
  bit of randomness and interacting with third parties (eg service staff) snaps
  you out of "interview mode".
- Q: what's the most absurd belief you hold? What's your most unpopular
  opinion? Forces people to give an honest answer.
- Q: how do you think this interview is going? (meta-question)
- Zoom interviews really change people's charisma. Allows you to see into their
  home. Choice of background says something.

## Overall thoughts

Overall a really interesting book, I'd recommend, if anything just to hear the
opinions of somebody who has thought a lot about this. It seems like hard data
for a lot of practical questions either doesn't exist or shows that no one
factor is too predictive, therefore this kind of informal advice is probably
the best one can ever hope for.

Other reviews of the book I found online:

- <https://corinwagen.github.io/public/blog/20220928_talent.html>
- <https://marketingbs.substack.com/p/marketingbs-a-review-of-talent>
- <https://nintil.com/talent-review>
- <https://braff.co/advice/f/a-lazy-review-of-cowen-gross%E2%80%99s-%E2%80%98talent%E2%80%99>
